Plasma Youth Sports Games
with Unsuccess of the champion,
would like to thank Slaven Bilić
for stepping in as the host.
Bilić is one of the first sponsors,
ambassador and is our biggest promoter.
He used his life and sports experience
in order to prepare high-quality content
with his guests for all generations.
Thanks, Nane!
So, Inter. You yourself said
what you had already achieved.
You had results behind you.
You also had influence.
And now titles… And financially,
things were the way they were.
My God, they were excellent.
-But this is a series. -One moment...
Sorry... -And the coach likes you.
Why did you leave Inter?
Did you leave because of that
Champions League match
when they kind of "called you out"?
That was after the match
against Manchester United?
I watched that match too,
and you were eliminated
from the Champions League.
I think it happened in the quarterfinals.
That’s right. -I think the result was 2:0.
The fans turned a bit against you
and against Mourinho,
who was brought in precisely
because of the Champions League.
Why did you leave Inter, where you
were loved, it’s a big club,
you were the main player there,
Milan is a beautiful city. -Yes.
Why did you leave Inter? Are you a maverick
or do you just love challenges?
Or did you leave because of money?
-No. It wasn’t about money.
However, money is made
when transfers happen, right?
Yes and no. It’s not
that simple to explain.
When a big transfer happens,
the player doesn’t get all the money.
As you said all this…
If Inter has to allow a player
to move to another club,
they will demand money.
And that money doesn’t go to the player,
even though he wants to leave.
If you want to change clubs...
-Money is made during transfers...
Clubs earn the most money when they pay
less for a player than he’s worth.
In my case, it was approximately
the same transfer fee.
But everyone wants Ibrahimović.
And the football agent gets a percentage
of the player’s salary. -That’s right.
And I already had that
same salary at Inter.
My salary didn’t increase
when I moved to Barcelona.
I continued receiving the same salary.
-Okay, then why did you leave Inter?
I left because Barcelona
was the best club at that time.
Guardiola was great,
but Mourinho was great too.
However, Barcelona as a team,
the way they played,
for me, all of that was new.
I received an offer
from Barcelona to join them.
That year they had won
the Champions League as well.
Thinking about it, I came to the conclusion
that I had been at Inter for three years,
I won the Scudetto three times
in a row, two Italian Super Cups.
I decided I wanted a new challenge.
To go to Spain and play
for Barcelona or Real Madrid.
Barcelona sent me an offer first,
and I decided to go there to see
for myself what kind of football
is played in La Liga.
At that time, Barcelona had
excellent footballers.
I decided to move to Barcelona
to prove to myself whether
I was really that good a footballer.
What kind of player am I? I didn’t want
to stay in my comfort zone anymore.
I decided to pack my bags
and go to another country
and play in a new stadium.
I decided to prove myself
in another country.
So, the fact that I was
the best at Inter and all that...
I could have stayed at Inter
and continued being the best,
but I chose to leave and try
everything again from scratch
in another country.
Bravo. -And because
of that decision I suffered a bit.
And I realized the following:
"Maybe it’s better for a dream
to remain a dream than to come true.
Because a dream can kill you."
Can you translate that?
-I understood you.
How do you say "dream"?
-Dream.
Maybe it’s better for a dream
to stay just a dream...
Because if you realize it...
Because if a dream comes true,
it might be bad for me.
That’s why I was no longer happy.
My dream was to move to Barcelona.
But because of that dream,
I didn’t feel good. I was
no longer as happy as before.
Because the newspapers published
an article before my move to Barcelona,
saying that my character
wasn’t good for the club.
That I was different.
-You’re special.
It took me back to the time
when I played for Malmö,
and I felt different again.
I said to myself: "You’re spending
too much time thinking."
I always had to think twice
before doing something.
And I did that so that people
in Barcelona would like me.
Now we’ll go back to when we talked
about what makes a great player.
A player is great when he behaves
the way he believes he should behave.
But at that time, I was trying
to be something I wasn’t.
I wanted people to like me
because journalists were writing
that I wasn’t a player for Barcelona.
You don’t fit in.
-I behaved differently.
I didn’t behave the same way
I did when I arrived at Juventus,
where I only thought about
the game and how to win.
In Barcelona, I was more...
On the first day, Guardiola told me
that Barcelona players don’t come
to training in a Ferrari.
I thought, what is he trying to tell me?
I just want to be who I am.
Whether I arrive in a Ferrari or not,
what does that change?
How does that affect me?
Okay, I accepted that, and every time
I wanted to make a decision,
I had to think twice.
That wasn’t right.
So, how you feel off the pitch
is how you’ll feel on the pitch.
You’re right.
-You carry that experience.
How you feel off the pitch
is how you’ll feel on the pitch.
If you don’t feel good off the pitch,
you won’t feel good on it either.
Of course. -That’s rule number one.
The first six months went well,
I played and scored goals.
I had good cooperation with Guardiola,
and then something happened…
I don’t know. To this day,
he never told me what it was about.
From that moment on,
I didn’t play for the next six months.
And I’m not the type of player
who goes to the coach and asks:
"Why am I not playing?"
Before, when situations like this
happened with coaches, it gave me
more motivation to be better.
I don’t get angry at the coach;
it motivates me to improve.
Then one, two, three, four matches
passed without me playing.
It was no longer about the way
I played, but about something else.
People from the club advised me
to talk to Guardiola.
To initiate a conversation with him
so that the club could get involved
and help resolve the problem.
Because for them,
I was a big investment.
They had to pay 70 million for my transfer.
That’s why I mentioned the commission.
To allow me to move
from Inter to Barcelona,
they had to pay a huge
amount of money.
That’s right, 70 million
and the deal is done.
Give us 70 million and no problem.
They told me: "If you want to go,
it has to be paid."
It wasn’t: you want it
and I just want my commission.
Better stay at Inter. That’s why I
mentioned the agent’s commission.
It was expensive.
No doubt about that. -Of course.
But I agreed to it.
After that situation, when I stopped
playing matches at Barcelona,
I decided to go to Guardiola,
and before starting the conversation
I told him this: "I didn’t come
here to cause problems.
You’re the coach, you’re the boss.
Whatever you decide,
that’s how it will be.
I’ll respect your decisions,
but I also have my own conditions
that need to be met so I can help you
and the team as much as possible."
I told him: "I think you’re
sacrificing me for other players."
I need space to show what I can do.
-You need space.
Otherwise, what am I doing here?
It’s better for you to have
other players, and I’ll move on.
We talked for about an hour,
and in the end I told him:
"I don’t want to cause problems,
I’m a professional,
I want to keep training."
He replied: "No problem,
I’ll take care of that."
After that, I was still only
on the bench.
After that conversation,
I didn’t understand
what it was about, and he never
explained it to me later either.
After six months passed
since that conversation,
I no longer felt happy.
He took away...
You know how it is
when you play football,
when you step onto the pitch,
you feel something different,
you feel alive, you play.
-That’s right.
A teammate passes you the ball,
you pass it to another player...
You move around the pitch,
you talk... -You feel happy.
That’s when a player feels
completely different,
and he took all that away from me.
After that, I didn’t even feel
like training, nor did I want to be
at Barcelona anymore.
I felt different from the other players.
He made me feel unwelcome.
And that’s not right.
I felt like I was in someone
else’s house.
I didn’t feel good anymore
and I stopped enjoying football.
You stopped enjoying it.
After that conversation, the next day
I came to training in a Ferrari.
And I parked it in front of his office.
It was a situation where
one ego was fighting another.
It was a sign of disrespect,
you did it intentionally.
We no longer had normal communication.
-You wanted to show him who you were.
Exactly. Because I also
have my own identity.
I gave everything I had,
but it wasn’t enough.
After that, I wanted
to prove who I really was.
I no longer wanted to think twice
before saying something.
From that moment on,
I was my true self.
I continued training, but I came
to training the way I wanted.
We continued like that.
The season came to an end,
and we were champions.
In the Champions League, we lost
the semifinal match against Inter.
That’s right... -Before I left...
Mourinho, Mourinho. -That was the worst.
Before my move to Barcelona,
I talked to Mourinho and told him:
"I’m moving to Barcelona and..."
He replied: "Where are you going?"
I said: "I’m going to Barcelona."
He said: "No, you’re not."
I replied: "Yes, I am."
I’m going to Barcelona.
He asked me:
"Why are you going?"
I replied: "Because I want to
win the Champions League."
Before I left, he told me this:
"Listen, this year we’ll be
the winners, not Barcelona."
-Yes, yes. -And Inter really did win.
But what had to happen, happened.
A year earlier, he told me they would win.
I have to congratulate him on that.
-Incredible... -That’s how it all happened...
And then after Barcelona, I moved
to Milan. That’s how it happened.
After Barcelona, you don’t go
to Inter, but to Milan.
And you win the league again
with Allegri, right? -That’s right.
You played for the three biggest
clubs in Italy: Juventus, Inter, and Milan.
A man needs great confidence and courage
to move from one club to another.
Because fans in Italy
are very temperamental. -Very.
How did Inter fans accept you
at first, or later Milan fans?
Since you changed those three clubs.
At that time, Milan hadn’t won
the Italian league for two years.
Players like Gattuso, Pirlo, Nesta...
-Seedorf. -Zambrotta, Seedorf...
They were all players
at the end of their careers.
And they needed
someone who would...
Who would bring out
the last bit of strength...
the last bit of strength in them.
Because they were already veterans.
They themselves said that Ibra
was the one who could help them.
The situation was this: either they
win the league or they leave Milan.
I came to Milan at a time when
I wasn’t happy playing football.
I came to Milan and they gave me...
-The desire you needed.
The desire to play. After that,
I started playing at Milan
and once again had that feeling
that I was alive.
And you were the league’s
top scorer again, right?
Yes, I was the top scorer.
-It was great.
There were great players in the club.
And the club itself was...
-Huge. - ...the best of the best.
So why did you leave Milan?
Why move to Paris?
I didn’t want to leave Milan.
-You didn’t want to? -That’s the difference.
That was the first time
I didn’t want to go.
But they sold me because they
needed money. -And Thiago Silva.
They sold both of us at the same time.
You left at the same time.
-It wasn’t my wish. My wish was to stay.
Before that, I had a meeting with
Galliani after winning the title sorry,
that year we didn’t win the title.
I told him: "Listen, when the summer
transfer window comes,
my wish is to stay at Milan.
Because I feel good here.
I was in Barcelona, where some
ugly things happened to me.
I don’t want to leave Milan
because I feel good here.
I’m happy playing and I don’t
want to change that."
He replied: "Okay, no problem."
Three weeks after that conversation,
I got a call from Mino.
It was immediately clear to me what it was
about. Everything was clear. Paris.
Four years, right? -Four years in
Paris... I didn't want to go to Paris.
I said I'd rather play here in front of
80.000 people in a stadium, in Serie A.
What I wanted to say earlier, when
I arrived in Serie A, it was top-tier;
all the best, most prominent players
were there. Many were fighting to win...
And then the Premier League was more...
-It was becoming...
Yeah, yeah, it was starting...
Serie A eventually got overtaken
by the Premier League...
That's why I can say, Serie A
used to be... -The biggest. -Top, top...
And then I went to Paris and asked them
what I was supposed to do there.
I was going to play in a stadium
with only 5.000 people.
That's the honest truth. I said, "Here I
have 80.000, and now I'm going somewhere
with 5.000, it's not like an upgrade;
it felt like I was downgrading."
And then they explained their project,
what they wanted and thought,
and that they wanted to invest,
build a team, and everything...
And then Milan, no, Mino pressured me,
saying Milan wouldn't be the same...
He was right. -He was right.
-Yeah, he was right.
In the previous 10 years, they hadn't
played in the Champions League. -Bravo.
Everything was changing,
and Mino seemed to see everything.
And Paris kept improving.
It was getting better and better.
And everything we did led to
today's result, to this victory.
Now with Luis Enrique...
But you're the one, you're the first...
I was in Paris when
it wasn't the club it is today.
Back then, the situation was totally
different from what it is now.
Your impact is more substantial because
of that. Your impact was strongest then.
That was my challenge: to lift the club,
to make it world-class,
to shape that mentality,
and to reach a level through results.
Level up or two levels up. -Yes, yes.
Players that come in now have it easy.
They now have the biggest
training ground in the world.
Players are now begging
to be bought by Paris.
The club doesn't even need
to pay them that much anymore.
I told Nasser, for every project
you need an architect,
and for this one, I was the architect.
I built PSG as a club, everyone that
comes in now gets to eat caviar.
When I was there,
I was eating schnitzel.
And what about when they say...
But they're good, they're good,
they're grateful. They're very grateful.
Nasser is good.
-Nasser is exceptional. -Yes, yes.
And do you know where else your
influence is visible?
Because your perception is often
that you have this ego
and you don't tolerate
someone being close to you,
but you accepted Beckham to come,
and Beckham is like the Beatles...
Yes, yes, he's great. -That's PR...
And you didn't just accept him...
You also decide who can come, right?
You suggest things?
They don't ask, but there's
a conversation. -You're important.
In the end, it's important
who the coach and the club want,
it's not about asking the player
if he wants to come.
You give some suggestions...
-They already have...
There's a strategy,
what they want from the team.
I think they brought Beckham in for
six months to finish his career there.
Yes. -They didn't bring him
just for his football skills,
but for the whole package
that comes with him.
Every day, 2.000 people stayed after
training, everyone was asking for him.
It's a totally different situation...
I think, with this ego, when you're
a player at the start of your career,
you have more ego for yourself, and then
as you approach the end of your career,
you no longer have that ego just
for yourself, but for everyone else,
because at the beginning you take
for yourself and later give to others.
In the end...
When I turned 29 or 30, even 28,
I didn't have ego just for myself,
because I knew who I was
and what I'd done...
You proved yourself to be
a proven player... -I proved it...
I didn't need to prove myself anymore,
I just needed to deliver results.
Yes, yes. -And in the end,
I gave everything back to the team.
It wasn't about me anymore,
I was in a situation like Modrić now.
It's no longer about him... -Stability.
-He does things for others. -Yes, bravo.
He showed the way to others.
He's an example to others.
He showed and helped others,
the new generation.
I was in the same situation
when I came here...
That's why I say that in the beginning,
egomania is very present
because a lot is on you,
you want to prove yourself,
you want more, new club, bigger club,
you do everything for yourself.
When you reach a certain level,
then it's just about the results
and giving back to those around you.
If you realize yourself as a player,
if you reach that level, of course.
Everyone has their own destiny.
And from Paris, in 2016,
you go to the island, right? -Yes.
To the Premier League,
again with Mourinho,
and it was an excellent season,
maybe the best season after Ferguson,
but at that time, they were obsessed
with needing more, more, more...
But you won three trophies. -We went
to United because Mourinho called me,
I told him I would go
because I was good with him.
As I said, when he has a player,
he manipulates and has a feel for them,
maybe because of everything on the field...
He called me to come to United.
I asked him, why should I go
to the Premier League?
I just asked because I was curious.
-You were curious.
I asked five players
I had played with before,
what would you do if you got an offer
from a Premier League club?
All five of them told me not to go.
Not to go? -Yes, yes,
they told me not to go.
But why? Because I would be
risking everything I achieved
by going to the Premier League.
If I don't perform well there,
all that I achieved loses its value.
It loses its value, you are judged
by what you do in Premier league. -Bravo.
I told them, perfect, I'm going to
the Premier League. -Challenge, right?
Yes. I couldn't get it out
of my head and decided to put
all 20 years of my career
on the line in the Premier League.
Everything I achieved in Inter,
Juventus, Milan... -Paris, Barcelona...
Paris... I put everything at stake
in the Premier League.
I was 35 years old at the time.
That's what kept me going, gave me energy.
Now it wasn't just about
a good contract giving me motivation,
now, it was about who I am,
my personality... That was also at play.
Personality, pride, yes... -Pride,
legacy, which is extremely important.
Of course. -I'm going to put everything,
like in roulette, on one number.
20 years of my career on Manchester.
I went there and...
In every club I'd been before,
except for Barcelona, I trained alone.
I had that mentality,
order and discipline.
Mourinho gave me enough space.
He worked as a coach, and we as players.
Every training session was intense.
I arrived there, and everyone said
they had no chance in the Premier League,
that it moves fast, everything is...
Football in the Premier League...
That rhythm is a whole different story.
Well, I took my things, went to them.
It's not that they came to me,
I went to them to show myself.
It's different, when I talk about
loyalty, it's not loyalty...
I was looking to see how far I could go,
and then, if you survive,
as you said, not everyone makes it...
I wanted to try.
If I didn't try, I would always
wonder what could have happened.
It wasn't about that...
It's better to go there...
Whether I win or not, at least I have
an answer to the question "what if."
Exactly. -I wasn't good, or I was good.
I went there, and after three months,
I already had the whole
Premier League in my pocket.
After just three months
because of the way I played.
Manchester United hadn't been
a good club for a long time...
At the end of the year, I got injured.
There was only one month left, and
I got injured, but I won three trophies.
Three trophies and got
injured, unfortunately...
If Arsenal wins...
I managed to win more in one year
than they did in the last 15 years.
-Did you tell Pires that?
I'm saying it now. So it's a bit...
So, Manchester United fans are
singing songs about you and everything...
Yeah, yeah, yeah,
but it was a different thing...
You were in these... Is that...
The Premier League is
a whole different thing.
Manchester United fans...
Of course, it's said it's
the biggest club in the world,
and you had the honor and quality
to play in these huge clubs that can say
they are the biggest. -Yes.
-How do you view that?
Is the Premier League really special?
I played in Serie A
when it was the special league.
The Premier League is now
the biggest league.
I was in the biggest club in the Premier
League, in United, at that time...
I can't say Liverpool, but for me,
it was United... -So, the biggest club...
With fans... I arrived in the Premier
League, and the stadium was packed.
The grass, everything was perfect.
The Manchester United fans,
when I scored in the first game,
sang my name for 45 minutes,
and I hadn't even played that well...
I told them, don't sing anymore,
wait until I start playing well,
then you can sing...
I felt weak because I wasn't playing
well, and they were giving me credit
for such little effort.
I wanted to deserve that.
You wanted to deserve it, yes, yes...
-... deserve their praises.
I said, no, I didn't deserve this,
wait until I start playing well.
And then, as the match went on...
You know yourself,
a match isn't over until it's over.
The last 10 minutes... Yesterday I saw
Manchester Everton 4-4. -Bournemouth...
Yes, Bournemouth, sorry...
It was as if it was over, but it wasn't.
Just like that, the result was 3-0,
and in the last 10 minutes,
we come back to 3-3, then 4-3...
It was like I had a heart attack.
In Italy, 1-0, and it was done.
1-0, put me on the bus, and it's over.
Capello, when he wins 1-0,
he says the match is over,
I push, and he says it's done...
But in the Premier League,
it was 1-0, 2-0, 3-0,
now we're starting to control
the game... What about 3-1...
People love that, they love it,
that's... -It's hard.
I told the players,
we can't do this every match,
we need to control the situation.
If we don't do that, we won't win.
We need to be smart, even though
the fans love this, I love to win,
and I know I'll win, but this way...
we'll end up in the hospital after
three months if we keep going like this,
and I'm still not ready
to end it here...
But it's the best,
the Premier League is top, top, top.
It's not easy, it's hard,
it's a different culture, mentality.
I saw football differently. The referees
there are much more respected.
A whole other thing. -It's beautiful.
Beautiful. -Very, very.
That's why I say, I was there, and
I'm grateful I had the opportunity...
What if I hadn't gone there?
I'd always wonder how I would
have played in the Premier League?
That's it. -Yes. It would have been
a shame for both sides...
And in the Premier League,
some problems start, right?
I injured my knee. For the first time,
I got seriously injured.
That's when panic set in
because something like that
had never happened to me before.
I was 36 years old at the time,
and I said, I've had my entire
career, and this is how it ends...
This isn't Ibra anymore.
I'm a fighter. -You're a fighter.
A fighter can't end like this.
But I came to a situation
where I didn't know where I was because
I'd never been in such a position.
I had minor muscle injuries, cramps...
I had minor injuries...
This was my first significant injury.
Suddenly, my world was different.
I was on top, playing, training...
And in one second,
I fell to the bottom.
The next day I couldn't train,
couldn't walk, nothing...
My body wanted to keep going...
While I was sleeping, my body was
shaking because it wanted to train.
That's normal when you train
during the season.
There are breaks, but you always
do something new, you're active.
I went from 100% to 0%.
I got the news that my knee
was completely destroyed,
that there were multiple injuries:
ACL, meniscus.
The muscle popped right here,
but in my head, everything was fine.
Everything was okay. The day it happened,
everyone... I was looking at the doctor,
the physio, and they said it was over.
I was full of adrenaline. No, it's not.
I am Ibra, I am Superman.
Nothing can happen to me.
The next day, I could walk.
It was a bit swollen, but I could walk.
Everything was okay.
I went for the MRI.
One year. One year...
Everyone said... I had the surgery.
I asked to do everything at once.
Usually, when you operate on the ACL,
you wait two months, then the muscle.
I wanted it all at once because...
I took a risk... -For the recovery.
If I tightened the leg, the muscle pops.
We'll make a strategy and a program
so that everything works.
I didn't want to lose two months.
I trained, I moved on,
and I got into a situation...
Now, it's not... how do you say?
A challenge to play football.
Now, the challenge is to come back.
To return and be the Ibra I was...
Before. -Before.
I don't want to play on my name alone.
If I'm Ibrahimovic and you play with me,
and I don't get results, it's better...
-I get it. -I'm not helping you or me.
No merit. -It doesn't work.
When it's over, it's over.
Mentally, I couldn't get going,
because I had to wait for this to heal.
I'm training and everything. I returned
after seven months and Mourinho...
Trust? -... had trust in me
to play right away. He put me in.
I started playing and I said "wow."
Something is not right.
I didn't feel free,
I didn't feel strong... -Powerful, yes.
I didn't feel like Ibra.
When Ibra plays, he lifts his leg here...
I was afraid to lift my leg here.
When I leaned on the operated leg,
I would collapse immediately.
-Yes, yes. -I didn't feel strong,
but everything was fine.
There were no problems.
Mentally, I wasn't there.
When you operate on a knee, that knee
is like new and must be taught again.
I told Mourinho not to put me in.
I went against my own ego.
I wanted to play, I know I'm better
than the rest, but don't put me in.
I can't help you because of
how I feel right now.
I have to go slowly... It was January
or February in the Premier League.
It's not like Serie A,
take it slow, or like La Liga.
When you get the ball,
a player is there to hit you.
If you aren't ready, it's over.
I told him to keep me on the bench,
to give me more time to train.
Another month passed
and I still wasn't ready.
If I can't help, don't put me in.
Ibrahimović...
It's not good for you or for me.
My name is at the top and
ending like this isn't right.
I told Mourinho that
I had a chance to go to America.
I asked him to let me go
and try to play there.
That's my chance to show
if I can still play or not.
He told me to go, no problem.
He said I didn't even have to ask.
It's the least he could do
because of what I did for him.
Respect. -It was January.
I went to America.
In America, I started from zero.
Like I told you about the coaches.
To see if you can. -The coach
starts from zero, I start from zero.
They asked me how I was.
I didn't know. But they...
From the highest paid in the world,
I came to the budget there.
There is a salary cap there.
I wasn't a DP, how do you say...
One of the three who can get more.
-Who can earn more. -I didn't get that.
It was all set. That's done
before the season starts. -Done.
We were... I had a salary,
but I wasn't worried about it.
I just said... How do you say?
Protection... -That's it.
Just to be in the club. I don't need
a salary, I don't want anything.
They asked me how I was.
I don't know.
I'll come to you for free. No need
to pay. -You needed a platform
to see if you could still play.
-To understand where I stand.
I started playing the first game,
I score two goals.
Like I was the old Ibra,
but the situation wasn't like that.
Adrenaline, like I told you.
There was adrenaline, a little luck,
a little instinct. But... Bit by bit...
We played there once a week.
We played, we got a little time
and then we play again. -You have time
to prepare and heal the knee. -To
prepare and see how the knee reacts.
I didn't play on grass, but on plastic.
-Artificial grass, yes.
I said it's not that I don't want to,
but I don't know how the knee will react.
You can't play on artificial turf.
-In a year I was recovered.
I signed for another year.
From the lowest salary in MLS, to the best.
Ibra is back. I'll play another year.
I felt that I wanted to play.
Stay or not? Mino says... I said
before when I finish my career,
I want it to be at the top. Then
Mino told me if I want to finish at top,
I must return to Europe. In Europe
I should finish my career, not in America.
In America, small players finish. If you
are great, you'll return to Europe. -True.
I was supposed to go to Napoli,
because Ancelotti was in Napoli.
On the day I was supposed to sign,
Napoli fired Ancelotti.
It wasn't OK for me. I went there for
Ancelotti, I know our relationship is top.
It wasn't about the contract. When you
are 38, 39, 40, the contract isn't important.
You must gather adrenaline for challenge.
I asked Mino who needs me the most.
Two days before that, Milan loses 5-0
from Atalanta. They were in 11th place.
He told me Milan. I asked why.
He said that I am the only one
who can bring Milan back to the top.
Now he gave me fuel. -Bravo.
He gave me what I needed to go.
When you are 38, 39 years old,
you don't wake up every day full
of enthusiasm. -When you're a kid, yes.
Every day is hard. Why am I
doing this? Why do I need this?
I don't need it. But, in my head
is that I must bring Milan back.
I go to them and first question at press
conference was what kind of benefits
the club will have when I return,
because it can only be worse.
That's how it is. When you do something
good, next time can only be worse.
You can't go back again, yes,
to where you were.
I say I never lost the passion
for what I do. For football.
Since then...
That's right. -Great. Tell me this,
to go back to America for a moment.
One of... When you read something,
then it can sound arrogant.
I am a god. In anything.
I am the best.
However, when you look at that, you always
have a smile. You always have...
You always laugh so you always
leave room to... -Melt in.
It's a bit of a joke. Even if they ask
what Helena got from you,
you say she got Zlatan.
-That's more serious. -Alright.
Humor is a big part of you. Why
I ask and why I link it to America?
Those ideas of yours to take that page in
the paper and write: "LA, you're welcome."
And the thing with LeBron to return jersey.
Is that you? Is it some... -Me, me.
Me. For that "You're welcome",
I gave myself to America.
That was it. -That's a great joke.
-They didn't buy themselves a gift.
It wasn't Christmas time. I brought
the gift to them in America. -Yes.
I just wrote "You're welcome".
That's all. With LeBron it was...
He made 23 jerseys and they called it
"The Chosen One". He chose 23
athletes in LA and I got that jersey.
I said if he wants to show respect,
to bring the jersey personally.
First. Second, who are you to say that
I am "The Chosen One". I can say that.
I signed the jersey
and returned it to him.
That's crazy, you know. -And when I say
god, I... -That is terribly intelligent.
When I play... Well, religion and
the rest, all that we put aside.
When I play, I feel that
I am at the top.
When I score goals,
what do I do with my hands?
I feel alive. That is for me...
Proof that I am alive.
It's not because of cameras or acting.
That's how I feel, that's how
I am on the field.
In that moment I feel
that I am alive.
That is everything to me
at that moment. -Bravo.
Tell me... -That's why
I think all players...
They say that 50% is in the head,
but I think it is more than 50%.
Surely, surely. -That is it.
Tell me, with all this, all these
magnificent clubs you played for,
you also played for Sweden, of course.
-Yes. -Though you often proudly point out
the Balkan part of you, you always say
I am 100% Swedish and that's how it is.
You were the captain, the best
scorer in history and all that.
Sweden was always at the big
tournaments, but it was never
good enough to make a
major result, right? OK.
But what interests us here,
especially Bosnia and Croatia.
It was always rumored... For example,
when I was the head coach,
people from the top told me a hundred
times that they were two days late,
the fax was late... -To play for...
-Those were the stories, Croatia for mom,
Bosnia for dad. Was that ever realistic?
-I had a Bosnian and Swedish passport.
I chose to play for Sweden,
they asked... Croatia and Bosnia,
no one specifically asked for me.
There were stories, but nothing
concrete. Sweden was there.
I played for Sweden until I was 16.
Then I didn't play, then for the under-21
I played seven games, six goals.
After that I made  the step
to the first team, but no one
specifically asked. -And if they had?
Would there have been a chance?
-There'd be a chance to
win the World Cup and
European Championship.
But I don't know if that would be
for Croatia or for Bosnia.
I think the chances would be higher
for Croatia, given the team they had.
Not because you are here. I mean
because of the team. Šuker, Bokšić.
Croatia was missing a striker.
Everyone else had top ones.
Respect to all, Mandžukić, Olić, Rebić...
-You mean after Šuker and Bokšić?
After them. -After them, yes, yes.
-If they played, there'd be competition.
So, there would be a chance?
OK, great. -But it was never concrete.
It never was, no, no.
I can tell you that. -Is that possible?
It's a pleasure talking to you.
-Thanks a lot. -Thanks for your time.
Trophies in all leagues. Only England
and USA are missing. -Champions League,
Premier League... -And MLS. -It's interesting
that everyone says I was an ego player,
an individualist, but I have 34
collective trophies.
If you’ve won 34 trophies
in the biggest leagues in Europe,
and Europe is the center of football,
it’s impossible to say you’re selfish.
When two players are through on goal,
the one who shoots is called selfish,
the one who passes is praised.
-Right. -I had three or four…
Okay, Messi passed me later on,
I’m talking about the earlier years.
Maxwell and Dani Alves as well,
but not by much.
Yes, but those were clubs that hadn’t won
anything before you arrived.
So you join Inter, who weren’t
champions at the time, Milan too.
Immediately. They had their own story,
but this happened right away.
Inter hadn’t been champions for 17 years.
Juventus hadn’t won
for one or two years either,
and then we won together. -Paris…
-The only real "machine"
that was already winning
when I joined them was Barcelona.
That was a machine. Paris was a project,
Milan hadn’t won for two years,
Inter for 17 years… -And that leaves
two things, if you really look at it,
two things are missing.
Two main things.
You scored a huge number of…
You were named
Swedish Footballer of the Year 12 times,
10 of them in a row. -Yes, yes.
That’s incredible. And you’ve won
so many individual awards.
You’re missing the Champions League, right?
And the Ballon d’Or.
You’ve said a few times that you believe
you deserved the Ballon d’Or.
Is there a particular season
when you think you should have won it?
It all depends on the Champions League,
which is a team trophy.
I think if you win the Champions League,
you’ll also win the Ballon d’Or.
So that’s what you’re missing.
One thing leads to another.
-It pushes the other.
Yeah, it pushes the other.
That’s how I see it.
Although some players have won it
without winning the Champions League.
But then you had to have a strong
national team. -It wasn’t always like that.
When Ribéry should have won,
he didn’t,
even though he won the Champions League.
-That’s true.
So that rule doesn’t always apply.
I think it also depends on
which national team you play for,
which club you come from,
and how much attention
you give to marketing…
In my opinion, the Ballon d’Or
is an individual award,
for the player who made the biggest
individual difference on the pitch.
The Champions League is the team trophy.
This year Dembélé won it,
but who was actually better individually?
Vinícius was better. -Yamal.
-Yamal too, but he’s young.
It doesn’t matter that he’s young.
Age doesn’t matter here.
You can’t tell me you wouldn’t give him
a chance just because he’s 17. -Alright.
Age doesn’t matter here.
You don’t need to be 20 to play.
If you’re ready, you’re ready.
Okay, Yamal, if you’re ready,
go and beat Inter. Beat Inter.
And he was the best individually.
He destroyed Inter.
Give me one more of those…
take me to the final.
So, do you have to win the Champions League
to win the Ballon d’Or?
No, but it’s a huge boost.
-It helps a lot, yes.
But I’m talking about
who was the best individually.
I agree with your theory.
-Because it’s an individual award.
I agree, yes.
There were periods in my career
when I was individually the best,
when I made the difference,
but I didn’t win the Champions League.
Still, I made the difference individually
and was the best.
But not everyone liked
my character, my behavior, my style,
which I think is important for a team,
but personally it didn’t bother me.
Personally, yes. -So the best player
doesn’t always win it.
I always say my mentality
and who I am wouldn’t change
if I won that award.
It wouldn’t affect my career. -Of course.
-Would I have liked to win it?
Yes, a hundred times.
To win the Champions League?
But it wouldn’t change me as a player.
It’s just a moment of happiness.
It shouldn’t change a player.
A player always remains who he is.
That’s why I say that, as a striker,
I was complete. I could do everything.
Everything, nothing was missing.
-That’s for sure.
Other strikers score 100 goals.
I could have scored 100 too.
So does that mean Bokšić wasn’t good
because he scored eight goals?
Haaland is much better
than someone who scored 50.
Those eight back then
are like 50 today. -Yes, yes.
That’s what I’m saying.
Today’s generations are different.
That’s how I see it.
I’m the most complete striker of all time.
Left foot, right foot, headers, everything.
Intelligent…
That’s why, in my opinion,
you deserved the Ballon d’Or.
You’re a player who deserved
the Ballon d’Or,
and I’m not saying this
just because you’re here…
There are stronger players than you,
faster ones, guys with better dribbling,
a better shot, but no one
has all of that in one.
And you do. You’re what I like to call…
There isn’t a goal at this level
that someone has scored
that you haven’t scored yourself. -Yes.
Maybe not straight from a corner,
since you don’t take them, right?
And maybe not from your own half.
-I didn’t score just one of those,
I scored more than one, which is insane.
-Messi scored 20, 30, even 50 goals
after dribbling past four or five players,
and you did that too at Ajax, right,
when you went past all of them.
But no one scored goals like you.
A free-kick rocket, a tap-in like Inzaghi,
a header like Andy Carroll…
Everything, and on top of that,
the spectacular ones.
In England from 30 meters, bicycle kicks,
that goal to Italy at the Euro,
that last goal in MLS
when you lift your leg like that…
Did you know that only you
and Cristiano Ronaldo
have scored a goal
in every single minute of a match?
There’s one more player.
There are three of us.
I think it’s Suárez.
-Kane? No? -I think it’s Suárez.
There are three of us.
I saw that stat somewhere.
Yes, yes. By the way, just to say,
Bokšić scored more than eight goals
in France, at Marseille.
No, I meant that generation and Serie A.
Maradona, how many did he score?
Ten, fifteen? -Yeah, it was
tougher back then.
I’m not saying he only scored eight…
I’m just saying that the numbers back then
are like today’s numbers. -100%.
The game was different.
-Like basketball. -Yes, same thing.
I’m just saying that the goals
they scored in that era
are worth the same as
50 goals today. -For sure.
One isn’t better than the other.
They gave their best
under those conditions,
just like players do today,
maybe even more.
Bokšić, in my opinion, was top class.
I love tall, complete players.
I’m 197 cm tall, and when I move
on the pitch, I don’t move like this,
I move like this, elegantly.
I like elegant players. -Yes, yes.
When I’m on the pitch,
I see the game three steps ahead.
If the play goes there,
I know the ball will end up here,
that’s how I think.
I don’t run there
just so I can get the ball here.
I think three moves ahead,
but I don’t think I’m some kind of genius,
that’s just how I played,
and I showed it on the pitch.
I was 197 cm, 95 kilos when I played,
but I moved like I wasn’t. -Unreal agility.
That’s why I love tall players
who can do extraordinary things.
Like Zidane, Bokšić, you.
-Athletes. -That’s undeniable.
Tell me, how would you
describe your character?
You always say that the two most important
things are faith and discipline.
On the cover of your book, you say:
"Believe in yourself.
There’s nothing wrong with
being different from others.
If you’re not like everyone else."
And yet, you emphasize
the Balkan in yourself.
When you say "Balkan,"
what do you mean? -Balkan because,
even though I was born in Sweden,
a typical Swede isn’t
what Zlatan Ibrahimović is.
How can I put it…
I don’t look like a typical Swede.
Blue eyes, blond hair… I have a big nose,
Swedes don’t, Balkans do.
I’m Balkan in how I react,
I’m temperamental. -Passion…
That’s what makes me different from
the rest. -And you mean patience too.
We grew up in a family,
in an environment that
others might have seen as aggressive,
but to us, it was normal.
A Swede is softer than a Balkan.
Although some Balkans are soft too.
I’m just saying I didn’t do things
the way a typical Swede would.
I’m different.
You’re very empathetic,
you care about the people around you,
you take great care of your family,
even of Maxwell.
Max is very soft.
He’s a great player, but you always
made sure he was treated just as well.
There’s a story, I don’t know
if it’s true, probably is.
When you were a kid in Rosengård,
when your mom went to work,
if you were hungry, a Swedish lady
would make you sandwiches.
And when you made it in your
career later, you gave her a check.
It’s not about the check,
it’s that you don’t forget
the people who were good to you.
Where I was born
and where I come from,
people don’t forget
what has happened to them.
That’s why I told you,
I won’t change for anyone.
Even if my financial situation changes
or if I become famous,
I’ll never forget where I come from.
That’s the most important thing.
People start to lose themselves
because of fame and money
and forget where they came from.
-For sure. -I’m not like that.
I’ve been on both sides.
In poverty and in wealth.
In poverty, where I had nothing,
and in wealth, where I have everything.
I’ve been on both sides
and I know what it’s like on each.
I’ve been in a situation where
I couldn’t buy what I wanted to eat,
and now I can buy everything I want.
That’s true. I can buy whatever I want
and I have no limits.
But I haven’t forgotten
where I come from.
And I know I could survive
if I went back there. -Bravo.
The worst thing is forgetting
where you came from,
then you’re not being realistic.
Because what you have now
might not be there one day.
Of course. And to finish,
let’s talk a little about family.
You’ve mentioned her
a few times, Helena…
A Swede who was already
an accomplished woman before you.
She had her own career…
-Not everyone knows that, but it’s true.
There are situations where people build
their careers through certain players.
She already had her career before me.
She says she fed me as a little boy,
before I ever fed her,
because she had a career before me.
-Yes, she fed you before you fed her.
She took care of me before
I ever took care of her. -Yes.
Because she already had a career
and she’s ten years older than me.
Yes, I know. -I think that’s
the reason for our success.
What happened to me,
she had already experienced,
she had been through it,
she was more mature and had patience.
She was mentally ready
for what was happening to me.
She was ready for you, yes.
If a woman my age had been next to me,
she would have been completely lost. -True.
Maybe it would have, but she wouldn’t
have been able to control me or protect me.
She wouldn’t have been able to
protect you. -So that I could feel good.
I understand you.
-I think I was lucky to meet Helena.
Well done. You have two sons.
-That’s right, we have two sons.
Maximilian and Vincent,
who are teenagers.
You mentioned it yourself earlier...
How do you and Helena agree
on raising them, considering that you
grew up in different circumstances?
Completely different circumstances.
-How do you manage parenting? -Well.
When it comes to parenting,
I don’t think I’m too strict. -Yes.
And I’m not one of those parents
who constantly tell them what to do.
We are equally involved
in raising them.
She helps with what she’s good at,
and I help as much as I can too.
However, I’m more the one who
criticizes them. -You criticize them.
When bad things happen.
I think it’s better that I’m like that,
because when children feel
the need to talk about emotions,
it’s better they talk to their mother.
Of course, a mother is a mother.
-When it comes to me, things are clear.
With me, everything is black or white.
There’s nothing in between.
Either something is allowed
or it isn’t. -You give them security.
I can’t be different, because I didn’t
grow up in that kind of environment.
If something happens and they
start crying, I’m not the one
who comes and hugs them.
I understand you. -I tell them,
"Go to your mother, let her hug you."
If it happens that they cry
in my presence,
the only thing I can say is:
"Stop crying or go to another room."
That’s it. -Well done.
-That’s just how I am.
I don’t know any other way.
-Well done.
Do you ever think, when you see
how they’re being raised...
Do you ever think it would be better
to raise them the way you were raised
when you lived in Rosengård?
-Would that be better for them? -Yes.
It’s not easy to talk about.
I don’t have a clear answer
to that question,
because we all grow up
in different circumstances.
What they have now and what they
think is best for them,
I felt the same way
when I was their age.
When I was their age, that was
my maximum, what I could achieve.
One of my sons recently passed
his driving test and has a car.
When I was his age, I didn’t have
a car. I had to earn it first.
When I started earning money,
I bought it only after a year.
As a parent, I try to balance
and decide what’s right and what isn’t.
At the same time, you want them
to learn something,
but not to suffer too much.
For me, that’s balance.
Three things matter to me:
discipline, respect, and independence.
That’s what’s most important.
They never get what they want.
If they really want something,
they have to earn it.
And they have to work hard
to get it. -I understand.
That’s how I see it.
If you’re asking whether I ever regret
not having some of the things
they have today, my answer is no.
I think I had everything.
Otherwise you wouldn’t have
achieved all these results.
That I achieved everything
as an individual?
If you had everything
your children have,
do you think you would have
achieved all these results?
Or do you think you need to be hungry
I don’t mean literal hunger. -I think...
But to have something
that pushes you forward.
Yes, I understand,
to have desire... -To succeed.
I think each of us
has our own destiny.
What happened to me
simply had to happen.
And I had to achieve
all these results.
Everything we talked about
influenced me to become who I am.
They have their own path.
If they want something,
it depends only on them.
I will help you. I will give you...
How do you say it?
Tools. Advice. -Both play football.
I told them...
When they were starting out,
everything we did, football, school,
they used their mother's last name.
Not Ibrahimovic.
They used her last name.
We did that to protect them.
They didn't know what the world was like.
At that age, they think the world is wow,
everything is positive, everything is OK,
but it's not like that. It's not like that.
When you carry the name Ibrahimovic,
there are positive and negative sides.
They didn't grow up in their father's shadow.
-Yes, yes. -They are more important than me.
Ibrahimović is a professional, a footballer.
In the house I'm just a father, not a player.
I'm not a professional. I don't bring it home.
In my home, there are no photos of me.
There is only one, from Sweden, in the...
How do you say? -The gym.
A photo of my feet,
to not forget where I got everything I have.
That is the only photo. There are no others.
I played for Milan... Nothing.
They live their own lives. They must
grow up independent of Ibrahimović.
I don't want them growing up with "my father".
No, no. They have their own story.
They play football, I help them there.
With me, it is only black and white.
Even if you're my son, if you're not good,
you're not good. -Bravo.
I won't tell you that you are good
if you are not. -Yes, yes.
I told them that I am disciplined.
In the beginning I drove them to training.
My time with them when you are a player...
You are always in hotels, playing matches,
you are never at home.
You don't have much time for the children.
I spent time with the children
only when I drove them to school.
Every morning at 7 I drove them to school.
Then I could be with them... -That's right.
Then I would go to training.
Then I would drive them to training.
They trained in the afternoon.
Again, I drove them. I told
them that I drive them every day.
I didn't want them to tell me they no longer
wanted to train, football or something else.
I don't want you to tell me you don't
want to. I drive you every day.
I have other obligations too.
I am with you then.
When you get to training,
you're there 1-2 hrs.
You must give 200%. That is for you.
I do this for you.
If you don't give 200%
at training, I have other plans.
I don't drive you for my sake,
but for yours. -Correct.
That's when I am with them. I told
them they can do other things,
but when they train, they must give 200%.
Do not waste your time here
and then later say you want something else.
Then we must do something else.
I explained that to them and
then they did it for themselves.
I told them if you're going to do this
for me, stop immediately.
I told them...
If something happens to you, it will be
because of you, not me. -Yes.
We have an academy called
Vismara, and Milanello is the first team.
They went there for a trial. If they're OK,
they'll be accepted. They were accepted.
For three years, I didn't go there.
I said, I don't want to...
I didn’t want it to seem
like they were there because of me.
Because of you, right? -Yes.
And that didn’t sit quite right with me.
I’m their father, I want to see them play.
But for three years, I didn’t go there.
I said, "You need to earn
the right to be here."
You need to earn it for yourselves.
I don’t want you to have any privileges
and then have people talking about it.
And now it’s the other way around,
basically in the world.
Ibra goes out while you train.
And that’s exactly what I did.
When they turned 16, they came to me
and said they wanted the surname Ibrahimović.
I asked them, "Are you sure you want this?
Because the situation will change.
Even though everyone knows
who you are, things will change."
They said, "No, we’re aware of everything."
And then they changed their surname
to Ibrahimović. -Phenomenal.
I still have two more questions.
Since you’re mentioning Ibrahimović, Seger…
Why did your jersey originally say "Zlatan,"
and when did you change it to "Ibrahimović"?
Yes, yes.
Do you remember when I first talked
about "Zlatan fever" in Sweden?
In the newspapers, it always said
Zlatan, Zlatan…
It never said Ibrahimović.
I was playing with Mido.
His name isn’t Mido, it’s Ahmed Hossam,
but on his jersey it said Mido.
When I spoke to him, I said:
"If your jersey says Mido,
then mine will say Zlatan."
But after three months,
I didn’t feel right about it.
I said, "Zlatan represents me,
not my family."
"I want to represent my family."
So I changed it to Ibrahimović.
It was a momentary thing, because everyone
in Sweden was talking only about Zlatan,
and I just simply thought
it would be cool.
It wasn’t a big deal for long.
But immediately, I felt it wasn’t right.
Because of your dad, right?
Well, it wasn’t really about that.
Because of the Ibrahimović family,
I went with Ibrahimović.
And the last question… Since this show
is for both kids and parents,
I read somewhere that you
suggest kids try two sports.
Yes, always. -One individual,
and one team sport. Like you.
Explain that a little.
When I was young , and I’m still young…
I played football as a team sport.
So, you learn to have fun.
Or how do you say it? -Yes, to play.
When you play a team sport,
you think collectively,
you socialize, and you learn
how to build relationships
with others, how to behave, how to react.
In an individual sport, it’s just you.
I trained Taekwondo,
which is an individual sport.
So you train self-discipline.
Everything depends on you
how you control everything, individually,
how you react individually.
In contrast, a team sport is different.
They say school is important for kids.
For me, school is important
so that young people
learn to respect each other.
To find each other, not just boys
and girls finding each other,
but also to socialize.
After that, you learn math,
English, and other important subjects.
Everything else is someone else’s story,
and I don’t need that,
because I want to create my own story
so that others can read it.
That’s my mentality.
But I tell my kids that school
is important so they learn
to respect others and socialize.
The same goes for sports. When you train
one team sport and one individual sport,
in the end, they intertwine.
And football, in the end, is individual too.
That’s important. -Bravo.
Even though nowadays,
all of this is somehow getting lost.
Thank you so much. -Thank you.
Zlatan, I really enjoyed this.
Respect. -Thank you very much.